# Code Structure
Let's look at the home page of DP-GEN. https://github.com/deepmodeling/dpgen
````
├── build
├── CITATION.cff
├── conda
├── dist
├── doc
├── dpgen
├── dpgen.egg-info
├── examples
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
├── requirements.txt
├── setup.py
└── tests
````

- `tests` : unittest tools for developers.
- `examples`: templates for PARAM and MACHINE files for different software, versions and tasks.
For details of the parameters in PARAM, you can refer to `TASK parameters` chapters in this document.
If you are confused about how to set up a JSON file, you can also use [dpgui](https://mobile.dpgui.deepmodeling.com/)

Most of the code related to DP-GEN functions is in the `dpgen` directory. Open the `dpgen` directory, and we can see
````
├── arginfo.py
├── auto_test
├── collect
├── data
├── database
├── _date.py
├── dispatcher
├── generator
├── __init__.py
├── main.py
├── __pycache__
├── remote
├── simplify
├── tools
├── util.py
└── _version.py
````

- `auto_test` corresponds to `dpgen autotest`, for undertaking materials property analysis.
- `collect` corresponds to `dpgen collect`.
- `data` corresponds to `dpgen init_bulk`, `dpgen init_surf` and `dpgen init_reaction`, for preparing initial data of bulk and surf systems.
- `database` is the source code for collecting data generated by DP-GEN and interface with database.
- `simplify` corresponds to `dpgen simplify`.
- `remote` and `dispatcher` : source code for automatically submiting scripts,maintaining job queues and collecting results.
    **Notice this part hase been integrated into [dpdispatcher](https://github.com/deepmodeling/dpdispatcher)**
`generator` is the core part of DP-GEN. It's for main process of deep generator. Let's open this folder.

````
├── arginfo.py
├── ch4
├── __init__.py
├── lib
└── run.py
````
`run.py` is the core of DP-GEN, corresponding to `dpgen run`. We can find `make_train`, `run_train`, ... `post_fp`, and other steps related functions here.
